# airbnb_data_analytics
## General description and justification
 It doesn’t take a Rocket scientist to find out whether Airbnb rentals in a hot humid area should have air conditioning or not. However, market specific Airbnb rental data analysis could make the decision for airbnb hosts easier. This will in turn increase profits for the Airbnb hosts as well as increase revenues for the Airbnb company. I went ahead to download Airbnb review data for Cape town and Gauteng, South Africa. This dataset is sourced from Inside Airbnb website which aggregates and cleanses publicly available data from Airbnb for the purpose of supporting deep analytics. My main aim is to look at common amenities listed by Airbnb hosts to decipher which amenities make an Airbnb host competitive in the market. The evaluation metric for competitiveness will be based on review ratings as well as review comments placed by customers. In future I would like to include revenue data as well but that information is not available on the Inside Airbnb website currently. I performed an exploratory data analysis on the data from Inside Airbnb looking at the most common amenities listed on Airbnb by hosts in Cape town and Gauteng, South Africa. The data indicated that: long term stays, essentials and Free parking are the most common amenities listed by airbnb hosts in both Cape town and Gauteng. Further analysis will be done to see whether having these amenities give you an edge over other hosts. In future I would want to extrapolate this project by looking at common amenities that make an Airbnb host listing more successful than others in Africa.

